SPEAKER 1: I barely ever
only trim on one side.
I usually just--
SPEAKER 2: Really?
SPEAKER 1: call trim.
SPEAKER 2: Is that
a lifestyle choice?
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: Welcome back
to the HTTP203 World
Cup of Web Features 2018.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, you're
bringing the enthusiasm back.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: That was really good.
SPEAKER 1: This is the episode
where we find out who wins.
SPEAKER 2: Yes, it is.
SPEAKER 1: And that's exciting.
SPEAKER 2: In the
previous few episodes,
we figured out one finalist.
Do we reveal that now,
or should we just see--
SPEAKER 1: No, because
I've forgotten,
and I want to keep it that
way so I don't incorporate it
into my decision--
SPEAKER 2: That's good thinking.
SPEAKER 1: We did, in
the last episode, figure
out the other
semifinalist, which--
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: --is the
pitch lifecycle API.
SPEAKER 2: Yes, correct.
SPEAKER 1: Why did you
skip the word page?
It's part of the
API name, isn't it?
SPEAKER 2: I just keep--
makes it--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SPEAKER 2: I'm going to try
using that tactic of argument
in this next phase, as well.
[LAUGHTER]
[GIBBERISH]
Oh, OK.
Trim Start Trim End.
Once again, the font is
making it almost illegible.
SPEAKER 1: OK.
SPEAKER 2: But--
SPEAKER 1: I feel
like-- it says--
yeah, OK.
Explain to me, and I'll--
SPEAKER 2: Trim?
SPEAKER 1: Mmm.
Gotcha.
Remove them space
at start and end.
SPEAKER 2: Trim
left, trim right.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, I thought that
was already left and right,
so I wonder if
you type out trim.
SPEAKER 2: Non-standard.
SPEAKER 1: Ooh.
SPEAKER 2: But in pretty
much all browsers,
I think, except Edge.
SPEAKER 1: OK.
SPEAKER 2: Trim start, trim end.
There you go.
SPEAKER 1: Here's a
question then, though.
Does trim start
behave differently
in right-to-left languages?
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
[INAUDIBLE]
I was wondering that.
But because there's no language
applied to a JavaScript
environment-- yes,
in a web environment,
but not in a JavaScript
environment, which this is,
I'm pretty sure there is
absolutely no difference.
SPEAKER 1: So we're calling
it trim start trim end
because we already have
trim left and right,
but that's not standard.
SPEAKER 2: And we have
pad start and pad end,
and it's basically to make--
you OK?
SPEAKER 1: Sure, yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 2: So that's it.
And scanning my notes,
yes, this is now
in everything except Edge,
but it has landed in Chakra,
so it's likely to be in
the next version of Edge.
SPEAKER 1: All right.
Going up against
that is import.meta.
So import.meta is
basically an object
where you have metadata
about the module
that you're currently in.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: And I think the only
thing that's on there right now
is the URL property.
And that's more or
less equivalent to what
document.currentscript.source
used to be.
SPEAKER 2: Right.
SPEAKER 1: The
thing you can't use
that is because if you have--
so document.currentscript gives
you the script tag of the--
SPEAKER 2: That's
included in the document.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
Right.
SPEAKER 1: That's
currently running.
SPEAKER 2: Right.
SPEAKER 1: Now, the problem
is that a JavaScript
module can have an
import, and so that
doesn't have a script tag.
So what is current
script supposed to be?
SPEAKER 2: So it's
giving you the URL
of the current scripts, not--
SPEAKER 1: Exactly.
And that is super important
if you think about--
if you want to do some path
mangling for dynamic imports,
or any kind of module
loader, or maybe just
do a relative path
resolution-- all these things.
SPEAKER 2: So DIR name, the
thing that you have in Node.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, exactly.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
OK.
SPEAKER 1: That kind of thing.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: So it's
a simple feature,
but it's actually quite
powerful and useful.
SPEAKER 2: All right.
So it feels like we had two
quite small, simple features
there.
SPEAKER 1: It's a nice change.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, some
of them might be bigger.
So it feels like we could
probably make a decision
reasonably quickly.
But then--
SPEAKER 1: I-- so trim start
trim end doesn't feel that new,
because we already have it.
And also, I barely ever
only trim on one side.
I usually just call trim.
SPEAKER 2: Really?
Is that a lifestyle choice?
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, I
usually trim all the way.
SPEAKER 2: I am
going to vote for--
same reasons as
you-- import meta.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, absolutely.
SPEAKER 2: It's
more of a feature.
It is a new thing, where--
SPEAKER 1: And it's actually
currently really painful
once you run into the
problem that it's not
supported in all browsers.
SPEAKER 2: Yep.
SPEAKER 1: And
[INAUDIBLE] modules are,
but import.meta is not, and
it's sometimes really annoying.
SPEAKER 2: Sold.
There we go.
Import.meta.
Let's introduce the
next feature, which is--
this is a lot of letters.
SPEAKER 1: RegEx?
SPEAKER 2: RegEx.
See, the font is terrible.
It looks like BegEx.
BegEx named capture groups.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: I know these.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, see,
I heard of them.
I never actually
looked at the syntax.
But it is just this.
I find RegEx to be write only.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, it's
execute the line noise.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: Once
you've written it,
it's absolutely
impossible to know--
SPEAKER 2: You write
some RegEx, and you
go, 1, 2, 3, what is this?
I don't know.
It makes no sense.
I knew it a second ago.
I now don't.
But being able to do this--
name groups like this, and
then-- so result.groups,
you get the stuff out.
Brilliant.
SPEAKER 1: Before that, you
only had a numbered array,
and it would be
completely unclear--
SPEAKER 2: Exactly.
SPEAKER 1: --what
you were doing.
SPEAKER 2: And
another place that it
would be unclear is when
you're using string.replace.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, yeah.
SPEAKER 2: But you can use the
group names there, as well.
So in this example,
I'm changing it
from being year, month,
day to day, month, year.
SPEAKER 1: Because month, day,
year is absolutely nonsensical,
and should not be used.
SPEAKER 2: Agreed.
Yes.
Two people, European.
There we go.
We absolutely think that.
SPEAKER 1: More on
that next Wednesday.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 2: OK, we've been
proven to be non-trustworthy
when it comes to dating.
OK.
Fair enough.
Dating-- that's
not what I meant.
[LAUGHTER]
But still, also true.
SPEAKER 1: Also probably true.
[LAUGHTER]
All right.
Going up against RegEx
Name Capture Groups--
SPEAKER 2: Yep.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, I did that right.
Is Relative Time Format.
SPEAKER 2: We're going--
well, the other thing wasn't
strictly to do with dates,
but we're still sticking
with that theme.
SPEAKER 1: We're sticking
in that territory.
This is basically
Moment.js on the platform.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, we got it.
So you can basically create
a Relative Time Format
instance that is localized.
In this case, I'm using
English because we've
been mostly speaking English.
We could've done
German, but I didn't.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: Also, I mostly
copied and pasted it,
and I was too lazy to actually
generate a German one.
SPEAKER 2: Yep.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
You just pass in--
here's a number.
Here's the unit.
It will give you that
as a localized string.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
SPEAKER 1: And there's,
obviously, many more options
if you want to have a full
breakdown of just the highest--
if you want to have four months,
three days, and two hours ago,
or if you want to
just have one of them.
If you want to have it more
numeric, or spelled out
as words.
All these options are there.
But basically, Moment.js
on the platform.
It's a big dependency that
you can hopefully ditch now.
SPEAKER 2: Well, I
mean, I felt like it
was going to be an easy
one, but now I'm less sure.
Things like Moment.js are
one of the things that leads
to quite big bundle sizes.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Because you end
up with these large libraries
and--
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, especially
if you don't [INAUDIBLE] them.
They have all the
localization still in there.
SPEAKER 2: Right.
So having that just
in the platform,
that feels a huge win.
The RegEx thing is really useful
for the readability of RegEx.
But--
SPEAKER 1: How often
do you use RegEx?
I know Jason lives off of RegEx.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
You mean our colleague Jason.
SPEAKER 1: Jason Miller.
Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Because
it sounds like you're
talking about the web standard.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, JSON?
SPEAKER 2: JSON lives off RegEx.
It's like, you should not
pause your JSON with RegEx.
SPEAKER 1: Turns out, you can
parse languages with RegEx.
No, I meant--
SPEAKER 2: Absolutely.
SPEAKER 1: --I
meant Jason Miller,
who does all kinds of
minification, and mini-code--
micro library magic.
And it's often because RegEx.
SPEAKER 2: But I'm going to
say the Relative Time thing.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, I agree.
SPEAKER 2: It's one of
the first bits of intl
that I am really, really
happy with, I'd say.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Some of
that, I found it to be--
SPEAKER 1: It's a
well-designed API, it seems.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: I think there
are still some things that
could be even better.
But you know what?
I'm going to cut my losses here.
It's a good API.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
It is something that
you could legitimately
replace Moment with.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: And look, we
have a new thing to decide.
So import.meta or
Relative Time Format.
I'm going to go with
Oh, you're less sure.
SPEAKER 1: I'm trying to--
subjectively, I have run
more often into import.meta
when writing stuff than
into Relative Time Format.
That being said, pretty much--
a lot of apps need the
Relative Time Format.
Many apps probably
don't need import.meta,
in terms of the
average developer.
I'm going to sided with you.
RTF is the big hitter here.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah,
the wins for the web
by reducing those model
sizes, I just think
feels bigger
[INAUDIBLE] import.meta,
you could probably work
around, in a lot of cases.
SPEAKER 1: There's probably
a babel plug in there
or something that does it.
SPEAKER 2: Very
possibly, very possibly.
Right.
OK.
Yeah.
There you go.
So we got Relative Time Formats
through to the next stage.
But now, I want to talk
about Resize Observer.
SPEAKER 1: I like it.
SPEAKER 2: I've
got a feeling this
might go far in this contest.
Because--
SPEAKER 1: It's because I
wrote the article on it.
SPEAKER 2: You did
write the article on it.
It's a really good
article, as well,
and it's such an amazing
feature, I think.
SPEAKER 1: It's
also quite simple.
SPEAKER 2: It is also
quite simple, I would say.
You give it an element,
and it will tell you
when it changes size.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Some of
the complexities
in how it handles recursive
changes, like it'll only
fit sort of things inside that
element that are changing.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
But most of the time,
that is something
you shouldn't be running into.
But mostly, you just say this
is a resize event for elements,
rather than just the window.
SPEAKER 2: Absolutely.
And that--
SPEAKER 1: You can
build element queries,
I think they are called,
on top of all these things.
SPEAKER 2: That, for me,
is the selling point.
It's the element
container query stuff--
SPEAKER 1: Container
query, yeah.
SPEAKER 2: --that we've
been wanting for ages.
SPEAKER 1: OK.
Let's see who has to
beat the Resize Observer.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: It's Audio Worklet.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, OK.
SPEAKER 1: So another worklet.
The worklets are
coming to the platform.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
It's the year of the worklets.
SPEAKER 1: So a little catch-up.
Usually, when you do audio,
you create an audio context,
and then you can create
notes and connect them.
So in this case, I'm
creating a track note
from an audio element.
Then I'm creating
a gain note, which
allows me to adjust the gain.
How much louder or quieter do
I want this audio to become?
SPEAKER 2: Right.
SPEAKER 1: And a panner.
Do I want it on the left
speaker, the right speaker,
somewhere in the middle?
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: And then I
connect these nodes.
It's like a little
data flow model.
SPEAKER 2: It's
very similar to what
you would do in an audio system,
where you're plugging things
into each other,
different processes.
SPEAKER 1: The
reason it's written
this way is because
all of this is
running in a different thread.
SPEAKER 2: Of course.
SPEAKER 1: So all
this data mangling
is happening on a
different thread
because its audio has to be,
usually, super low latency.
Latency is one of the biggest
factors when you do audio work.
SPEAKER 2: It's
kind of declarative.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: But then,
people are like, well,
I kind of want to manipulate
the buffers myself.
I want to get an audio buffer,
and do some math myself.
SPEAKER 2: Right.
SPEAKER 1: And they
were looking at it like,
do we do it with events?
But events are async by
default. So it gets really
hard with the real time-ness.
And now worklets
are a primitive that
actually give the
solution, because now you
can do your own node.
So this is the same code,
but now, there is a sum node.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
SPEAKER 1: And the sum node
is basically an audio worklet
node, and it takes
a name, and then,
in a different file,
that we loaded up here,
I can extend
AudioWorkletProcessor,
which is the basic node,
and create my own one.
And just, in there,
I'll have access
to my inputs, which is
an array of buffers.
And I can define what
is in the outputs.
SPEAKER 2: Right.
Because there are ways to
do this sort of processing
on the main thread, and I
think it's now a deprecated API
because you run
into all of this.
SPEAKER 1: The
asyncedness, and all
the real time-ness problems.
And it adds latency with
the thread hops in, as well,
because audio is already
a different thread,
but now you have to jump
back to main thread.
It gets unwieldy.
And the worklets can just be
migrated to a different thread,
run on the same thread.
You can still maintain
the same declarative API,
and allow basically now to
have DSP plugins on the web.
All the effects that
people do can now just
be ported to an audio worklet.
SPEAKER 2: That's nice.
That is nice, actually.
But--
SPEAKER 1: But--
SPEAKER 2: But-- it's not
Resize Observer, though, is it?
SPEAKER 1: It's not.
Audio is still-- it's
just in each use case.
In general, audio is
actually kind of frowned
upon on the web.
And apps, in general--
things that just start
playing audio are bad.
SPEAKER 2: That's true.
SPEAKER 1: And there is audio
apps, and those are great.
I'm really impressed
with how far people get.
But the audience that can
use these, fairly small.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
The little bits of audio
stuff I've done on the web,
I've really enjoyed.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: I had
loads of fun with it.
But it is-- I've only
done it once or twice.
SPEAKER 1: [INAUDIBLE] The first
time was one of them, right?
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, that actually
might be the only one.
[LAUGHTER]
And I did a little bit of
extra stuff after that,
but it was mostly that.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SPEAKER 1: --observer
is just so good.
SPEAKER 2: I want [INAUDIBLE]
in every browser today,
please, so I can do
that sort of stuff,
have the container queries sort
of thing stop just attaching.
Because what we do right now
is we attach a Resize Listener
to the window, but that
doesn't necessarily mean that--
that's not going to
catch all cases where--
SPEAKER 1: No, and then you call
get [INAUDIBLE] client direct,
and becomes a
performance footgun.
It's so hard to do right.
SPEAKER 2: Exactly, exactly.
Right.
So that goes through
to the next stage.
And now we are coming onto
the final two features
that we're going to talk about.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: I want to
talk about CacheMode.
SPEAKER 1: On Fetch.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
So this is part of
request objects.
Because it's part
of request objects,
you always get-- it's this
second parameter of Fetch,
as well.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: And what
you're essentially doing
is saying how this request
should go through the cache,
if at all.
So with reload, I'm saying, on
the way out, ignore the cache.
But on the way back, it
can go into the cache.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, you have
control over both "path-es."
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
Yes.
SPEAKER 1: Paths.
SPEAKER 2: "Path-es."
No, no, no, you say "path-es."
Why not?
It's Christmas.
Treat yourself.
Treat yourself to some new
words that you just made up.
That's fine.
[LAUGHTER]
So yeah, but this
is good if you know
there's a more
up-to-date version,
but the user has one in
the cache that's set.
SPEAKER 1: If you
one in the cashe--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 2: What's in this?
Yes.
So you can bypass the cache--
SPEAKER 1: So
basically, no store
would then be--
on the way out, it
can hit the cache,
or probably not.
SPEAKER 2: No store behaves
as if the cache doesn't exist.
SPEAKER 1: OK.
SPEAKER 2: So it bypasses
the cache both ways.
SPEAKER 1: And no cache?
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
I'm reading this off
a piece of paper.
Even if there's-- if there's
an item that is fresh
in the cache, it bypasses
it, but it will still do
a re-evaluate, potentially.
SPEAKER 1: Freshen the cache.
SPEAKER 2: Freshen the cache.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, all right.
Cool.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
Force cache means if
there's something--
SPEAKER 1: Basically,
the stuff if I'm
doing the cache-busting thing,
where we put random query
things, amongst other things.
SPEAKER 2: But with
force cache, it
means that you could take
the item in the cache
even if it's stale
[INAUDIBLE] like Max Edge.
And only if cached means--
SPEAKER 1: And also don't hit
the network at all, right?
SPEAKER 2: Well, force cache
will still hit the network,
only if cached will not.
SPEAKER 1: Interesting.
SPEAKER 2: That's it.
SPEAKER 1: Lots of control.
I like it.
SPEAKER 2: Only if cached
has to be same origin.
That is the feature.
SPEAKER 1: All right.
Going up against
that is class fields.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
Oh.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: I don't know a
lot about this, so I'm--
SPEAKER 1: It's pretty simple.
It's this.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: So far--
so one--
SPEAKER 2: So this doesn't
include the private.
SPEAKER 1: No.
But it will, basically,
be built on top of it.
So once-- this is
landed in Chrome.
The private ones are the
names that start with a--
SPEAKER 2: Hash.
SPEAKER 1: --hash.
SPEAKER 2: Hashtag.
SPEAKER 1: Hash-- yes.
SPEAKER 2: Hashtag's what
the kids call it now.
SPEAKER 1: And
those will only be
accessible from
within the function--
from within the class,
not from outside.
This is pretty much
just sugar, I guess,
over getters-- and
set it getters.
But the biggest beneficiary
would, for example,
be custom elements.
Because you have the
observed attributes field
that always has to be a
static getter function,
and now it could just be
a proper static attribute.
And it just looks nice, and it's
easier to read what's going on.
SPEAKER 2: What about
the instance ones?
Where do they happen in
relation to the constructed?
Do you know?
SPEAKER 1: I do not know.
I'm assuming it runs
before the constructed.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SPEAKER 1: After the
super constructer,
but before your own constructor.
SPEAKER 2: I think that's
what TypeScript does.
So that would make sense.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: I think.
SPEAKER 1: Maybe.
Who knows?
SPEAKER 2: Maybe.
Right.
OK.
SPEAKER 1: That means
away with the slides,
and in with the bracket.
SPEAKER 2: This is it.
So OK, one of the things that
is pushing me towards the cache
mode is that--
SPEAKER 1: It's actually
capability, right?
SPEAKER 2: Well,
class was a sugar,
and it's also sugar that--
I write a lot of
TypeScript these days.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: So I already have it.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, yeah, I get it.
SPEAKER 2: I'm glad that it's
going to JavaScript proper,
but I'm more excited about the
private instance properties.
SPEAKER 1: True, true.
SPEAKER 2: And the
things of like,
well, they could be munged
in code unification because--
SPEAKER 1: They're private.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah,
they're private.
So I'm more excited about that.
So I'd be tempted to
put Cache Mode through.
SPEAKER 1: I haven't run into
the problem with Cache Mode
very often, I have
to say, where I
wanted to have control over
how the Fetch is being handled.
That being said, I
think it's a very--
SPEAKER 2: [INAUDIBLE] case.
So you've updated
your service worker.
You want to get the freshest
version of these things,
and you've been-- you're not
in control GitHub's headers.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
I guess it mostly happened when
I was inside my [INAUDIBLE]..
But yeah, I agree.
SPEAKER 2: What I would say
is anything we pick now,
I'm going to be voting Resize
Observer in the next thing.
SPEAKER 1: Both of these
lose against Resize Observer.
SPEAKER 2: So go on,
I'll let you pick.
What do you want to put through?
SPEAKER 1: Let's put
cache mode through.
SPEAKER 2: All right.
SPEAKER 1: It's an
actual capability was
missing, while class fields--
we had a workaround for
years that's been fine.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: And it's nice.
It's nice.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
So next bit.
SPEAKER 1: We already said it.
Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, you agree?
SPEAKER 1: Yeah, I agree.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, we'll going
to rattle through these.
Yeah, I just think
Resize Observer--
the amount of stuff that
it solves is amazing.
Yeah.
So Resize Observer.
The amount of stuff
that you can do with it.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
It's very versatile.
SPEAKER 2: It solves just
such a longstanding problem.
So now--
SPEAKER 1: Now we're getting
to the interesting bits.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
So what have we got here?
Relative time format
and Resize Observer.
SPEAKER 1: It's still
Resize Observer for me.
SPEAKER 2: I agree.
I agree.
The amount of times
that I've wanted Resize
Observer in the past is loads.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: It's loads.
It's probably four or five.
SPEAKER 1: The
physical unit is loads.
SPEAKER 2: Is loads, yeah.
Yeah, loads times
two, I would say.
So let's put Resize Observer
through to the next round,
and we'll see where
that leaves us.
Here we go.
SPEAKER 1: Now we're getting--
that's a rough one.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
Now-- yeah, I could
have predicted this.
SPEAKER 1: The thing is--
SPEAKER 2: Interesting that
there's a commonality here
that these both solve
longstanding problems.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: The tab discarding
thing has existed since mobile,
and there's only now
a solution to it.
The Resize Observer, you
could sort of equally
say that this has been a
problem since mobile, as well.
Because that's when the
whole responsive thing--
SPEAKER 1: Exactly.
SPEAKER 2: --really
came into be.
SPEAKER 1: I'm
going to be honest.
I feel like
lifecycle API is more
work-aroundable than
Resize Observer.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
Because you could put stuff in--
SPEAKER 1: You have session--
SPEAKER 2: --session storage.
SPEAKER 1: On [INAUDIBLE] has
been there for a long time.
And you have IDB.
You have local storage.
You have means to
persist state locally.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: So you
could have done
the right thing for a
long, long time now,
and this is just the
cherry on top for you.
While Resize Observer,
you had to go
to get [INAUDIBLE] client
direct, and other awful things.
SPEAKER 2: I'm pressing the
button because I absolutely
agree with you.
SPEAKER 1: And I
think I now remember--
this is our second finalist,
if I remember correctly.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
SPEAKER 1: And I think
I remember now who
our finalist is, and that means
we have one CSS feature and one
JavaScript feature
in our finals,
which I think is amazing.
SPEAKER 2: That is exciting.
Oh, you're right.
Yes, I had forgotten about it.
So--
SPEAKER 1: Dun-dun, dun.
SPEAKER 2: So listen,
it's kind of horrible
that, with the
amount of work that's
gone into these features, and
the diversity of the features,
that we now have to just declare
one the best, arbitrarily,
based on just some loose
opinions, while wearing
a ridiculous jumper.
We should-- I feel like--
[LAUGHTER]
Is that going in
your ear every time?
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Brilliant.
Excellent.
SPEAKER 1: You want
to start, or should I?
SPEAKER 2: Well, it
feels like we have
to summarize scroll snap again.
Because--
SPEAKER 1: No, I think we
should link back to the video.
SPEAKER 2: You just
want another view.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, why not?
Excellent.
SPEAKER 1: Watch the
video if you don't
know what Scroll Snap is about.
SPEAKER 2: So we've got the--
I am going to show
the demo again.
Why not?
It's a tab we've got here.
I now remember.
So this is Scroll Snap.
SPEAKER 1: Isn't it great?
SPEAKER 2: It's not the best
demo anyone's ever made.
SPEAKER 1: It might be a
slightly underwhelming demo,
now that I think about it.
But--
SPEAKER 2: If this loses,
then whoever made this demo
is going to feel
pretty terrible.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
So this is like having a
paginated system within you're
scrolling.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
And you see that on
the mobile UIs, right,
where you have-- you swipe
between individual panels,
and you just want them
to lock into view.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: But you don't
want to reinvent the wheel.
It would ideally just
use the scroller,
and just let the rest be
handled by the operating system.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
And it's nice that it's in
CSS, so it's super smooth.
It's bringing
something that is--
SPEAKER 1: Composited scrolling.
SPEAKER 2: Composited scrolling
is a very native-feeling
feature.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
Because the browser [INAUDIBLE].
Even the browser might yield
to the operating system.
SPEAKER 2: And this
isn't even something
that Animation Worklet
is going to solve.
Because Animation Worklet--
SPEAKER 1: It used to.
It doesn't anymore, yeah.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: We used to
want it to solve it.
But actually, you can in a
way, but it's quite tech.
You can still-- if
you don't like--
SPEAKER 2: You would
have a scroll container,
and then you'd sort
of fake it in between.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
If you don't like how
Scroll Snap works,
Animation Worklet
is your SK patch.
SPEAKER 2: OK, OK.
SPEAKER 1: It's not as
easy as it used to be,
but honestly, Scroll Snap covers
the 95 percentile, I would say.
SPEAKER 2: All right.
SPEAKER 1: I think that's
where my argument lies.
Both of these are--
SPEAKER 2: They solve
longstanding problems.
SPEAKER 1: --incredibly
powerful tools,
big problems that have been
around for a long time.
SPEAKER 2: So Resize Observer
does more types of UI
than it solves a problem for.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: I can--
there are definitely
cases I would
use Scroll Snap, like the
two cases we mentioned.
Having a carousel, which is
the example we were looking at,
and having those--
yeah, paged UI--
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: --things,
which I have
written that in JavaScript.
It's incredibly hard, and it's
still a bit janky and slow.
Resize Observer, once
that's in all browsers,
I feel like I'm
going to have, like,
five elements on the
page, all doing--
having their Resize Observer
doing different things,
applying class names.
This is really difficult.
SPEAKER 1: For me,
my argument here
is going to be
the amount of code
that Scroll Snap
allows me to not
write just outweighs what Resize
Observer allows me to save.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, that's a really
compelling argument, actually.
I like that.
SPEAKER 1: Because if you
write Scroll Snap yourself
in JavaScript, it's
on the main thread.
You have to do the
physics things.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: And it's going to
be different from, for example,
Android [INAUDIBLE].
They feel different
when they scroll,
and you're either going
to be an uncanny valley,
or you have to have two
implementations aiming
at both perfectly.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: It's a lot of code.
It's very hard to get right.
For me, it's Scroll Snap.
SPEAKER 2: But then the
extensible web person within me
is looking at two features here.
One is a high-level feature
that I can't really hook into,
and the other is very
much a primitive.
SPEAKER 1: But that being
said, Extensible Web
doesn't say there should
not be high-level features.
SPEAKER 2: No, no.
SPEAKER 1: They should
just be built in a--
they should just be taken out
of exposing low levels first,
and then see the
popular patterns,
and then providing
easier ways for those.
SPEAKER 2: And if we were
talking about an Animation
Worklet where you can control
scroll position in this way,
that feels like the next step.
So this a big step up.
SPEAKER 1: That's the big
asterisk about the Animation
Worklet story here, where
you can't really control
scroll position anymore.
You used to, but that's
been removed from the spec.
But you can still achieve
the same visual effect--
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: --by
snapping into view.
So it is an escape
hatch for this.
SPEAKER 2: Resize
Observer, we can--
you've got the window
Resize listener.
You could infer stuff
in other ways, I guess.
It's difficult code.
Worse comes to
worst, you could have
a RAF that's checking layout.
SPEAKER 1: I mean, usually
you know your breakpoints--
your CSS breakpoints.
You could actually avoid
the get-bonding claim
if you do it right.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SPEAKER 2: It's
difficult to make modules
like that-- modules and
components like that.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: But absolutely this.
SPEAKER 1: Is it settled?
SPEAKER 2: I think I agree.
I think Scroll Snap.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Just how
smoothly it does it.
And although it's
not something I'm
going to be necessarily using
on every page, as you say,
it's a much bigger step
in the right direction
from how we were doing it
today, versus Resize Observer,
which is still a massive step.
SPEAKER 1: So with that,
our HTTP 203 World Feature
Championship 2018--
SPEAKER 2: [INAUDIBLE]
feature thing--
SPEAKER 1: Renderer.
SPEAKER 2: --is going
to be Scroll Snap.
SPEAKER 1: Scroll Snap?
SPEAKER 2: It's Scroll Snap.
SPEAKER 1: It is Scroll Snap.
He wins the orange carrot of--
SPEAKER 2: I was going
to ask what they win,
and I was thinking
it was nothing
because our opinion is
essentially meaningless, oh
but then--
just what we like.
But are we going to send them
the glittery carrot of the 2008
Glittery Carrot Award?
I like it.
We should do it next year.
SPEAKER 1: Until next year.
SPEAKER 2: Until next year,
well done, Scroll Snap.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm fumbling for time because
this is saying internal server
error.
[LAUGHTER]
Let me try this again.
[MUSIC CONTINUES]
I really want to go to the pub.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
OK.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
It's working.
We're back in.